
## To-dos for the week of (9-27 through 10-4)
- [x] Complete lectures through Ruby Primer to prepare for exercises
- [x] Re-do Ruby Basics  -> “Reading Documentation & Reading Documentation 2” chapters as a quick refresher
- [ ] Re do Ruby Basics -> Variable Scope chapter
- [x] Start on RB101-RB109 - Small Problems -> Easy 1 exercises
- [ ] Continue Lesson 2 and review Truthiness

- - - -

## 2019-10-01

I’m not really keeping up with this journal as much as I’d hoped. I’ve been busy trying to get myself back up from my car accident, but I’m still pulling in hours for Launch School. 

Anyways, besides my personal issues. I plugged in ~6 hours or so this week (and counting), but that’s pretty good considering my circumstances at the moment.

I’ve already hacked through Chris Pine’s Learn To Program book and absolutely loved it. It was very challenging. And I’ve also sank some of my free-time into Ruby Primer (which got increasingly complex and difficult as you go through each chapter, but still, great resource and as a newbie I’d love to go back once I’ve hit an intermediate level). 

Anyways, I’m going to supplement my studies with another source. I always find that using other sources would definitely help me. There was a Medium article that a Launch School student wrote where he listed all of his favorite outside sources. 

It included Eloquent Ruby, which I’ve had my eyes set on for awhile now. I will eventually get to that book, but I think I’m going to start off with Well-Grounded Rubyist first before I do.

I’m not going to lie, but I did try to attempt Lesson 2 and already went through some of the small program courses, but I eventually was stuck when it actually came to building it myself from scratch. It’s like I really forgot how to program and I needed to take a step back and analyze what went wrong.

That’s why doing the small exercises and re-doing the preparatory coursework might be a good idea for me. On top of that I’ll be reading more Ruby books as a way of helping me refactor those small programs with ease. It’s a serious wax on, wax off moment.

Tomorrow, I will finish the rest of my to-do list. Start reading Well-Grounded Rubyists. And then do more exercises (specifically variable scope from Ruby Basics and then Easy 2 chapter) and get through some parts of Lesson 2 (taking notes on Truthiness and building the calculator again).
