
## To-dos for the week of (9-27 through 10-4)
- [x] Complete lectures through Ruby Primer to prepare for exercises
- [x] Re-do Ruby Basics  -> “Reading Documentation & Reading Documentation 2” chapters as a quick refresher
- [x] Re do Ruby Basics -> Variable Scope chapter
- [x] Start on RB101-RB109 - Small Problems -> Easy 1 exercises
- [x] Continue Lesson 2 and review Truthiness


## 2019-10-02
Hello again, I’m kickstarting the day doing small exercises (Ruby Basics -> Variable Scope & Small Programs -> Easy 2) and continuing my progression with Lesson 2. I’m going to refactor the small programs and set up everything. I need to review, basically, most of what I’ve learned so that I can get a decent score on the quiz. I know that those aren’t really graded, but then again I really want to make sure I have everything down. That’s really my goal. 

## 2019-10-03
I made sure to finish up all of my Ruby Basics again. IT was nice to refresh on this material and I think it was a really great idea that I’m going back to work on it. There were specific rules that I missed, but I’m glad I came back to re-learn it. 

Today, I will be going over Truthiness and will be building the calculator today, and on top of that read some Well-Grounded Rubyists. It’s going to be a very busy day today. 

I did a few exercises and re-read Truthiness for the third time because I didn’t really understand it the first time, but now I really do.

Short circuiting is interesting. I wonder how engineers use it to their advantage. Basically, the `&&` and `||` operator exhibit this behavior.

The `&&` operator will short circuit when it first encounter it’s `false` expression. While the `||` operator short circuits when it encounter the first `true` expression. Here are some examples:

The `&&` operator short circuiting -

```rb
false && 3/0
```

This will return false, notice how we don’t get a `ZeroDivisionError` and that is because the `&&` operator didn’t even value the second expression; since the first expression is `false`, it can short circuit and return `false`.

On the other hand, the `||` operator does the same thing only with `true`.

```rb
true || 3/0
```

The above code doesn’t generate a `ZeroDivisionError` either because `||` didn’t even evaluate the second expression, just like the `&&` operator example.

Note: Ruby is a very liberal language and _considers everything to be truth other than_ `false` _and_ `nil`.

## 2019-10-04
I completed my “first week” of RB101 and clocked in about ~10 hours. I’ll be updating my (To Do List) for my second week. I’m going to make it a very busy week for myself. There are tons that I want to do. 

I’m just glad that I went over variable scoping, did a few easy exercises, went over truthiness, pseudocode, and flowchart again. I feel like the more I reiterate through these concepts the more I can get it down.

Here is what my to-do list for the start of next week will be: 

### Main Objectives (for Launch School)

- [ ] Read through Part 1: Ruby Foundations & Part 2: Built-In Classes and Modules in the Well Grounded Rubyist
- [ ] Re-do Loops 1 and Loops 2 in Ruby Basics again
- [ ] Complete Easy 2 and Easy 3 in Small Problems
- [ ] Refactor the calculator with bonus features and have it be reviewed by the TA’s
- [ ] Go over the Launch School Quizlet cards every morning

That’s pretty much it for the next week… I will be trying to get these done. Should be an exciting week…