# 2019-09-27
- - - -

## To-dos for the week of (9-27 through 10-4)
*Will update in future entries*

- [ ] Complete lectures through Ruby Primer to prepare for exercises
- [x] Re-do Ruby Basics  -> “Reading Documentation & Reading Documentation 2” chapters as a quick refresher
- [ ] Start on RB101-RB109 - Small Problems -> Easy 1 exercises
- [ ] Continue Lesson 2 and review Truthiness

- - - -

### 2019-09-27

I wanted to start off my day reorganizing my RB101 repository and getting everything cleaned up and set to go for the coming future. Once that was good to go I wanted to sink my teeth into the exercises, but there was a prerequisite required in order for me to knock out of the park before I could actually do just that.

I am planning on re-doing all of the Ruby basics exercises as a refresher and also as a way to nail down some things I might have missed. Other than that, I’ve spent most of the day taking notes on the general approach to solving problems. I am going to complete these lectures and review my notes over them before I begin the RB101 - RB109 exercises.

I wrote down some important concepts and notes (some handwritten, and others typed).  The handwritten notes is an outline of the general approach to solving problems can be found here: [Imgur: The magic of the Internet](https://imgur.com/a/vKvvETX). 

Let us put this newly acquired knowledge into practice. In this lecture, he will provide an exercise. This is how you should take notes using the odd words problem.

```
Consider a character set consisting of letters, a space, and a point. Words consist of one or more, but at most 20 letters. An input text consists of one or more words separated from each other by one ormore spaces and terminated by 0 or more spaces followed by a point. Input should be read from, and including, the first letter of the first word, up to and including the terminating point. The output text is to be produced such that successive words are separated by a single space with the last word being terminated by a single point. Odd words are copied in reverse order while even words are merely echoed.

For example, the input string
 > "whats the matter with kansas."

becomes
 > "whats eht the mater htiw kansas."
```

When we’re given a challenge like this, the most dangerous point is to ignore the text. If you’re reading through that paragraph and you’re thinking to yourself “All of this is a handful and I can’t understand it” and you move onto the input string example and try to code up a solution from there, you’re going to miss a few details. You **must** cover all the bases.

```
Understanding the problem:

- input:
  - 1 - many words
  - separated by: 1 - many spaces
  - terminated by:
    - 0 - many spaces
    - followed by a point
  - chars: letter, space, point, up to 20 letters
  - need to handle failure?
- output:
  - words: have the odd words reversed
  - odds means odd number words, based on 0 index
  - separated by one space between words
  - terminated: 0 space, followed by a dot
```

That whole list above captures everything in that paragraph, but broken down into a simple list that’s more easier to understand.  The next step is to think about examples and test cases.

```
Examples / Test Cases:

reverse_odd_words("hello.") => "hello."
reverse_odd_words("hello .") => "hello."
reverse_odd_words("hello world.") => "hello dlrow."
reverse_odd_words("hello world .") => hello dlrow."
reverse_odd_words("hello  world  .") => "hello dlrow."
reverse_odd_words("") => ""
```

There are some edge cases that we might need to ask the interviewer if we should handle, things like: 

* Emptiness (nil/null, “”, [], {})
* Boundary conditions
* Repetition / duplication
* Upcase or downcase (whenever we are working with strings)
* Data types

- - - -

```
Write a function that takes an integer number as input, and prints out a diamond with "*" character whose width is the number n.

For example:

Given n = 3

 *
***
 *

Given n = 5

  *
 ***
*****
 ***
  *
```

There is not much ambiguity here and that problem that it is asking us to solve is pretty clear, however the problem is more of you can’t just take the diamonds and write a program. So, for instance, the problem gives us samples, but it doesn’t give us specific examples of things that we can translate into code. 

So now we’re going to take the diamonds and turn those into rules and turn it into computational language. Let us work through understanding the problem again.

```
Understanding the problem: 

- input: number
  - what happens when the number is 0?
  - what happens when the number is an even number?
- output:
  - returns a string with new line char "\n" delimeters
  - prints on the screen
- model the problem
  - given an odd number n, for example, 5
  - output n strings
    - 1, 3, 5, 3, 1
    - prepend number of spaces: 2, 1, 0, 1, 2
  - join together with \n, or loop and print
```

We’re turning this otherwise very vague and printed diamond problem into something that we can make sense out of when we’re mapping out the logic of the problem. When we model through the problem the solution is halfway done.

Next example is going to be capturing implicit knowledge in a problem:

```
Write a function that takes an integer year as an input and returns the century. The return value should be a string that begins with the century number, and ends with st, nd, rd, or th as appropriate for that number.

Now centuries begin in year that end with 01. So, the years 1901-2000 comprimise the 20th century.
```

```
Understanding the problem:

- input
  - integer number
  - need to validate?
- output:
  - a string
  - begins with the century number
  - ends with st, nd, rd, or th
- rules:
  - new centuries begin in years that end with 01
  - century string number into a string:
    - 1: st
    - 2: nd
	  - 3: rd
	  - 4-20: th
    - 21: st
    - 22: nd
    - 23: rd 
    - 24-30: th
   . . .
  - generalize:
    - centry_number % 10
      - 1, 2, 3: st, nd, rd
      - 0, 4-9: th
    - except for 11, 12, 13: th   
```

```
Examples / Test Cases:

century(1) => '1st'
century(100) => '1st'
century(101) => '2nd'
century(133) => '2nd'
century(245) => '3rd'
century(1052) => '11th'
century(1152) => '12th'
century(2012) => '21st'
century(2112) => '22nd'
century(22222) => '223rd'
```

- - - -

Here is another example that we will break down and try to understand to come up with a solution:

```
Write a program that, given a word, computes the scrabble score for that word. 

Letter Values 
Value | Letter							
  1   | A, E, I, O, U, L, N, R, S, T 
  2   | D, G
  3   | B, C, M, P
  4   | F, H, V, W, Y
  5   | K
  8   | J, X
 10   | Q, Z

```

```
Understanding the problem

- Input: a string
  - lower case / upper case?
- output: an integer (the scrabble score)
- rules:
  - the score is the sum of scores of each letter in the string
  - the letter value table is used to loop up letter scores
```

```
Examples / Test Cases:

score('a') => 1
score('cabbage') => 14
score('Cabbage') => 14
```

- - - -

### Questions and Answer from the Webinar 

1. **How much of this pre-coding part of the process should you vocalize during an interview?**

If you put yourself in the position of an interviewer, your goal is to actually get as much information out of the candidate as much as possible. The more the interviewer knows about you the more they can make judgements to determine whether they want to send you to the next round or not. Try and communicate more, especially if you feel like you’re great at communicating. Ask the interviewer every now and then of verification  of your assumptions “*This is what I think what the problem is, do you agree? Am I missing something here?*” or if you have test cases “*After I solve the problem the function or methods should be able to solve these*”. Communicate with the interviewer as much as possible.

2. **How would you weigh doing particular challenges that require knowledge of more famous patterns/algorithms (maybe insertions sort for instance) versus doing any and all challenges?**

Some problems, most likely pieces of this problem you can use an algorithm that you devise on your own, or something you see in the select algorithm books that are called “crystalized algorithms” that you can just pull out. If you work with a high-level language like Ruby, Javascript, or so on. The algorithm implementation is already done at the language level. For example, you have an array of numbers that you want to sort from low to high. That algorithm is already implemented and installed in a method. 

3. **Do you have to sometimes “alter” your process of understanding the problem when solving the challenge in different languages?** 

When you break down a problem there are no language-specific requirements. Basically, you need to be really good knowing the fundamental building blocks of a programming language. In Ruby it is control flow, structures, if loops, while loops. You really need all the methods on four classes which is string, array, hash, and enumerable. You know you have finished the understanding the problem phase when you have a clear path from input to output.  

- - - -

*Note to myself* The plan for tomorrow is to finish the second part of the lecture and take notes on it and go over the material I just explained here. Cya tomorrow!


